So there are a variety of ways that
you can interface between R, R,
wi, with the outside world.
And generally speaking there are functions
that, that are used to kind of open up
the what are called connections
to the outside world.
Usually you want to, the most
common type of connection is to me,
is to a file, so for example if you
want to read a file then you can,
you can create a file connection,
you might want to for example o,
or read a compressed file, or
that's a slight variation on that.
And most functions will do this in
the background without you having to
know what's going on.
So for example,
when you call read.table with it and
you pass it the name of a file,
what it does behind the scenes is it
opens up a file connection to that file,
and then reads from that file connection.
The connection can be made to
other types of objects too.
For example, you can open a connection
to a webpage using the URL function.
And so,
when you open a connection to a webpage,
you can read data from that
webpage using the URL connection.
And so, the idea behind the connection
interface is, is that it kind of,
that it abstracts out.
The mechanism for connecting to different
types of objects that are external to R,
whether they be files, or
webpages, or whatever.
So the file function is the function
that opens a connection to
a standard uncompressed file.
So this, this can be useful for
text files, for, for
reading in other types of text files.
Gzfile and bzfile, are used for opening
connections to compressed data files.
So gz file i, are, is used for files that
are compressed with the gzip algorithm and
bz files used for, is for
opening connections to files
compressed with the bzip2 algorithm.
Files that are compressed with gzip
usually have a gz extension and
files compressed with bzip2
usually have a bz2 extension.
So the file function
here has a few arguments,
the description argument is the name of
the file and there's a flag that's called,
that goes to the open argument and
you have to know what the codes are, but
basically r is for reading, w is for
writing, a is for appending, and then rb,
wb and ab are for reading, writing,
and appending on binary files.
The other options for file are not
particularly important at this time.
So, connections can be very powerful and
they can let you navigate files and
other external objects in a more
sophisticated way than just,
like, reading the whole thing,
for example.
And generally you don't have to deal with
the connect interface in many cases, but
sometimes it's useful.
So for example, so here I've got
a simple example or opening a fi, a file
connection to some file called foo.text,
I'm going to open it for reading.
I can call read.csv on the connection, and
that by default will just read the entire
file then I can close the connection.
So that three line process is the same
as just calling read.csv on the file.
So in this case there was no need to
use the connection to read the file.
However, sometimes a connection can be
useful if you want to read parts of
a file.
So for example,
here I've got the readLines function
which just reads lines from a text file.
And I'm going to open
up this words.gz file.
So, this is a file that has words in
it for it's like a dictionary file.
And it's compressed using the gz,
the gzip algorithm.
So I'm going to be using the gz file
function to open a connection to that.
And I'm just going to
read the first ten lines.
So now I'm going to re,
use this connection, and
to read the first ten lines.
And here,
the first ten lines are printed out here
as you can see these are the first
top ten words in the file.
And similarly, write lines is a,
is a function that can be used to
write out lines of text to a file.
And each, and what you do is pass
write lines of character vector and
each element of the character vector
becomes a line in the text file.
You can also use readLines to read
elements from a web page, so for example,
you can use the URL function to
create a connection to a website, so
this website here is the Johns Hopkins
School of Public Health website.
And I'm going to open
the connection there for
reading, and then I'm going to
read lines from this connection.
And so and I'm, and then and
so the lines of text that come
from the connection are going to be
stored in this character vector x.
So when I look at the first
couple of lines from x you can
see that it looks like HTML which
is kind of what you would expect.
And so the URL function is useful for
creating a connection to
a kind of a non file object.
and then using read.lines is useful to
read the text from that connection.
So this is another way to read
data beyond using functions like
read.table or read.csv